#Exploratory Data Analysis
##Here we will look at different variables to see how the relationship to attrition.  
##Reviewing the data through visual graphs will help us determine variables that have impact on attrition.


#Attrition vs Age
ggplot(train, aes(x = Age, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Age") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=Age)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())

#Attrition vs BusinessTravel
ggplot(train, aes(x = BusinessTravel, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Business Travel") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=BusinessTravel)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())


#Attrition vs DailyRate
ggplot(train, aes(x = DailyRate, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Daiy Rate") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=DailyRate)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())

#Attrition vs Department
ggplot(train, aes(x = Department, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Department") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=Department)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))

#Attrition vs DistanceFromHome
ggplot(train, aes(x = DistanceFromHome, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Distance From Home") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=DistanceFromHome)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())


#Attrition vs Education
ggplot(train, aes(x = Education, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Education") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=Education)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))

#Attrition vs EducationField
ggplot(train, aes(x = EducationField, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Education Field") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=EducationField)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))


#Attrition vs EnvironmentSatisfaction
ggplot(train, aes(x = EnvironmentSatisfaction, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Environment Satisfaction") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=EnvironmentSatisfaction)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())

#Attrition vs Gender
ggplot(train, aes(x = Gender, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Gender") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=Gender)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())

#Attrition vs HourlyRate
ggplot(train, aes(x = HourlyRate, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Hourly Rate") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=HourlyRate)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))

#Attrition vs JobInvolvement
ggplot(train, aes(x = JobInvolvement, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Job Involvement") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=JobInvolvement)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_color_viridis_d(palette) +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())

##Attrition vs JobLevel
ggplot(train, aes(x = JobLevel, fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0,5) +
  xlab("Job Level") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill="Attrition")
ggplot(train, aes(x=JobLevel)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position='fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels=percent_format())

#Attrition vs JobRole
ggplot(train,aes(JobRole,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Job Role") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = JobRole)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))

#Attrition vs JobSatisfaction
ggplot(train,aes(JobSatisfaction,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Job Satisfaction") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = JobSatisfaction)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())


#Attrition vs MaritalStatus
ggplot(train,aes(MaritalStatus,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Marital Status") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = MaritalStatus)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))

#Attrition vs MonthlyIncome
ggplot(train,aes(MonthlyIncome,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Monthly Income") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = MonthlyIncome)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))

#Attrition vs MonthlyRate
ggplot(train,aes(MonthlyRate,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Monthly Rate") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = MonthlyRate)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format()) +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90,hjust = 0,vjust = 0.5))

#Attrition vs NumCompaniesWorked
ggplot(train,aes(NumCompaniesWorked,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Num Companies Worked") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = NumCompaniesWorked)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs OverTime
ggplot(train,aes(OverTime,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Over Time") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = OverTime)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs PercentSalaryHike
ggplot(train,aes(PercentSalaryHike,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Percent Salary Hike") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = PercentSalaryHike)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs PerformanceRating
ggplot(train,aes(PerformanceRating,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Performance Rating") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = PerformanceRating)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs RelationshipSatisfaction
ggplot(train,aes(RelationshipSatisfaction,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Relationship Satisfaction") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = RelationshipSatisfaction)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())


#Attrition vs StockOptionLevel
ggplot(train,aes(StockOptionLevel,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Stock Option Level") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = StockOptionLevel)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs TotalWorkingYears
ggplot(train,aes(TotalWorkingYears,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Total Working Years") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = TotalWorkingYears)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs WorkLifeBalance
ggplot(train,aes(WorkLifeBalancefill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("WorkLifeBalance") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = WorkLifeBalance)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs YearsAtCompany
ggplot(train,aes(YearsAtCompany,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Years at Company") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = YearsAtCompany)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs YearsInCurrentRole
ggplot(train,aes(YearsInCurrentRole,fill=Attrition)) +
    stat_count(width = 0.5) +
    xlab("Years in Current Role") +
    ylab("Count") +
    labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = YearsInCurrentRole)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
    scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs YearsSinceLastPromotion
ggplot(train,aes(YearsSinceLastPromotion,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Years Since Last Promotion") +
  ylab("Count") +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = YearsSinceLastPromotion)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

#Attrition vs YearsWithCurrManager
ggplot(train,aes(YearsWithCurrManager,fill=Attrition)) +
  stat_count(width = 0.5) +
  xlab("Years With Current Manager") +
  ylab("Count") +
  theme_classic() + scale_fill_hue(guide = 'none') +
  labs(fill=Attrition)
ggplot(train,aes(x = YearsWithCurrManager)) + geom_bar(aes(fill=Attrition),position = 'fill') +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = percent_format())

